README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/kurtlawrence/papyrus/workflows/Rust%20Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kurtlawrence/papyrus/actions)
[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/papyrus.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/papyrus)
[![Rust Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/api-rustdoc-blue.svg)](https://docs.rs/papyrus)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/kurtlawrence/papyrus/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/kurtlawrence/papyrus)
[![Rustc Version 1.42+](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.42+-blue.svg)](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2020/03/12/Rust-1.42.html)

## _Papyrus_ - A rust REPL and script running tool.

> This project is no longer maintained.

See the [rs docs](https://docs.rs/papyrus/) and the
[guide](https://kurtlawrence.github.io/papyrus/).
Look at progress and contribute on [github.](https://github.com/kurtlawrence/papyrus)

```sh
papyrus=> 2+2
papyrus [out0]: 4
```

## Overview
Papyrus creates a Rust REPL in your terminal. Code can be typed in, line by line with feedback on
the evaluation, or code can be injected via stdin handles. 
Each code snippet is evaluated on an expression based system, so terminating with a semi-colon
requires more input.

### Example
```sh
[lib] papyrus=> 2+2
papyrus [out0]: 4
[lib] papyrus=> println!("Hello, world!");
[lib] papyrus.> out0 * out0
Hello, world!
papyrus [out1]: 16
[lib] papyrus=> :help
help -- prints the help messages
cancel | c -- returns to the root class
exit -- sends the exit signal to end the interactive loop
Classes:
  edit -- Edit previous input
  mod -- Handle modules
Actions:
  mut -- Begin a mutable block of code
[lib] papyrus=> :exit
[lib] papyrus=> Thanks for using papyrus!
```

## Installation
Papyrus can be installed from `crates.io` or building from source on github.
The default installation feature set requires a `nightly` toolchain, but `stable` can be used with
fewer features enabled.

To install with all features:
```sh
rustup toolchain add nightly
cargo +nightly install papyrus
```

To install on stable without racer completion:
```sh
cargo +stable install papyrus --no-default-features --features="format,runnable"
```

## Requirements

### Features
Papyrus has features sets:
- _format_: format code snippets using `rustfmt`
- _racer-completion_: enable code completion using [`racer`](https://github.com/racer-rust/racer).
    **Requires a nightly compiler**
- _runnable_: papyrus can be _run_, without needing to manually handle repl states and output

All features are enabled by default.

### Cargo
Papyrus leverages installed binaries of both `cargo` and `rustc`. This requirement may lift in the
future but for now, any user wanting to use Papyrus will need an installation of Rust.

Commit message:

Provide link to the ogma project

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://github.com/kurtlawrence/papyrus/workflows/Rust%20Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kurtlawrence/papyrus/actions)
[![Latest Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/papyrus.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/papyrus)
[![Rust Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/api-rustdoc-blue.svg)](https://docs.rs/papyrus)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/kurtlawrence/papyrus/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/kurtlawrence/papyrus)
[![Rustc Version 1.42+](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.42+-blue.svg)](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2020/03/12/Rust-1.42.html)

## _Papyrus_ - A rust REPL and script running tool.

> This project is no longer maintained.
> 
> For a similar REPL tool with a refreshing way to interact with data, checkout the [`ogma` Project](https://github.com/kdr-aus/ogma)

See the [rs docs](https://docs.rs/papyrus/) and the
[guide](https://kurtlawrence.github.io/papyrus/).
Look at progress and contribute on [github.](https://github.com/kurtlawrence/papyrus)

```sh
papyrus=> 2+2
papyrus [out0]: 4
```

## Overview
Papyrus creates a Rust REPL in your terminal. Code can be typed in, line by line with feedback on
the evaluation, or code can be injected via stdin handles. 
Each code snippet is evaluated on an expression based system, so terminating with a semi-colon
requires more input.

### Example
```sh
[lib] papyrus=> 2+2
papyrus [out0]: 4
[lib] papyrus=> println!("Hello, world!");
[lib] papyrus.> out0 * out0
Hello, world!
papyrus [out1]: 16
[lib] papyrus=> :help
help -- prints the help messages
cancel | c -- returns to the root class
exit -- sends the exit signal to end the interactive loop
Classes:
  edit -- Edit previous input
  mod -- Handle modules
Actions:
  mut -- Begin a mutable block of code
[lib] papyrus=> :exit
[lib] papyrus=> Thanks for using papyrus!
```

## Installation
Papyrus can be installed from `crates.io` or building from source on github.
The default installation feature set requires a `nightly` toolchain, but `stable` can be used with
fewer features enabled.

To install with all features:
```sh
rustup toolchain add nightly
cargo +nightly install papyrus
```

To install on stable without racer completion:
```sh
cargo +stable install papyrus --no-default-features --features="format,runnable"
```

## Requirements

### Features
Papyrus has features sets:
- _format_: format code snippets using `rustfmt`
- _racer-completion_: enable code completion using [`racer`](https://github.com/racer-rust/racer).
    **Requires a nightly compiler**
- _runnable_: papyrus can be _run_, without needing to manually handle repl states and output

All features are enabled by default.

### Cargo
Papyrus leverages installed binaries of both `cargo` and `rustc`. This requirement may lift in the
future but for now, any user wanting to use Papyrus will need an installation of Rust.
