docs/modocs/cmds.md, before:

Extendable commands for REPL.

The REPL makes use of the crate [`cmdtree`](https://crates.io/crates/cmdtree) to handle commands
that can provide additional functionality over just a Rust REPL.
A command is prefixed by a colon (`:`) and a number of defaults. To see the commands that are
included, type `:help`.

# Common Commands

There are three common commands, `help`, `cancel` or `c`, and `exit`, which can be invoked in any
class.

| cmd      | action                                          |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `help`   | displays help information for the current class |
| `cancel` | moves the class back to the command root        |
| `exit`   | quit the REPL                                   |

Other commands are context based off the command tree, they can be invoked with something similar
to `a nested command action` syntax. There is also a 'verbatim' mode.

## Verbatim Mode
'verbatim' mode can be used to read stdin directly without processing of tabs, newlines, and other
keys which usually are interpreted to mean other things, such as completion or the end of an input.
To enter verbatim mode, use `Ctrl+o`. Verbatim mode will read stdin until the break command is
reached, which is `Ctrl+d`. Verbatim mode is especially useful for inputing multi-line strings and
if injecting code into the REPL from another program using stdin.

## Mutable Mode
The `mut` command will place the REPL into mutable mode, which makes access to `app_data` a `&mut`
pointer. Mutable mode avoids having state change on each REPL cycle, rather, when in mutable mode,
the expression will _not be saved_ such that it will only be run once. Developers can use this mode
to control how changes to `app_data` need to occur, especially by ensuring mutable access is
harding to achieve.

## Modules
The `mod` command allows more than just the `lib` module to exist in the REPL. Use `mod` to have
different REPL sessions all sharing the same compilation cycle. This can be useful to switch
contexts if need be.

## Static Files
The `static-files` command allows the importing of file-system based rust documents into the REPL
compilation. Rust files must be relative to the REPL working directory, and will be imported using
a module path based off the relative file name. For example, `:static-files add foo.rs` will copy
the contents of `foo.rs` into a file that is _adjacent_ to the root library file, so can be access
in the REPL through `foo::*`. The file `foo/mod.rs` would similarly be accessible through `foo::*`.
If the file `foo/bar.rs` was imported, it would _not_ be accessible unless there was also a `foo`
static file, and the contents of that file would have to contain a `pub mod bar;`.

Static files can also reference crates. If a static file contains `extern crate name;` **at the
beginning** of the file, these crates are added to the compilation and can be referenced.

To add static files, it is possible to use glob patterns to add multiple files in one go. For
example to add _all_ files in the working directory the command `:static-files add *.rs` can be
used. To recursively add files `**/*.rs` can be used. This applies to removing static files using
the `rm` command.

# Extending Commands
## Setup

This tutorial works through the example at
[`papyrus/examples/custom-cmds.rs`](https://github.com/kurtlawrence/papyrus/blob/master/papyrus/examples/custom-cmds.rs).

To begin, start a binary project with the following scaffolding in the main source code. We define
a `custom_cmds` function that will be used to build our custom commands. To highlight the
versatility of commands, the REPL is configured to have a persistent app data through a `String`.
Notice also the method to alter the prompt name through the `Builder::new` method.

```rust,no_run
#[macro_use]
extern crate papyrus;

use papyrus::cmdtree::{Builder, BuilderChain};
use papyrus::cmds::CommandResult;

# #[cfg(not(feature = "runnable"))]
# fn main() {}

# #[cfg(feature = "runnable")]
fn main() {
    // Build a REPL that will use a String as the persistent app_data.
    let mut repl = repl!(String);

    // Inject our custom commands.
    repl.data.with_cmdtree_builder(custom_cmds()).unwrap();

    // Create the persistent data.
    let mut app_data = String::new();

    // Run the REPL and collect all the output.
    let output = repl.run(papyrus::run::RunCallbacks::new(&mut app_data)).unwrap();

    // Print the output.
    println!("{}", output);
}

// Define our custom commands.
// The CommandResult takes the same type as the app_data,
// in this instance it is a String. We could define it as
// a generic type but then it loses resolution to interact with
// the app_data through commands.
fn custom_cmds() -> Builder<CommandResult<String>> {
    // The string defines the name and the prompt that will be used.
    Builder::new("custom-cmds-app")
}
```

## Echo

Let's begin with a simple echo command. This command takes the data after the command and prints it
to screen. All these commands will be additions to the `Builder::new`.
Adding the following action with `add_action` method, the arguments are written to the `Write`able
`writer`. The REPL provides the writer and so captures the output. `args` is passed through as a
slice of string slices, `cmdtree` provides this, and are always split on word boundaries.
Finally, `CommandResult::Empty` is returned which `papyrus` further processes. `Empty` won't do
anything but the API provides alternatives.

```rust
# extern crate papyrus;
# use papyrus::cmdtree::BuilderChain;
# use papyrus::cmds::CommandResult;
# type Builder = papyrus::cmdtree::Builder<CommandResult<String>>;
Builder::new("custom-cmds-app")
    .add_action("echo", "repeat back input after command", |writer, args| {
    writeln!(writer, "{}", args.join(" ")).ok();
    CommandResult::Empty
    })
    .unwrap()
# ;
```

Now when the binary is run the REPL runs as usual. If `:help` is entered you should see the
following output.

```text
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> :help
help -- prints the help messages
cancel | c -- returns to the root class
exit -- sends the exit signal to end the interactive loop
Classes:
    edit -- Edit previous input
    mod -- Handle modules
Actions:
    echo -- repeat back input after command
    mut -- Begin a mutable block of code
[lib] custom-cmds-app=>
```

The `echo` command exists as a root level action, with the help message displayed. Try calling
`:echo Hello, world!` and see what it does!


## Alter app data

To extend what the commands can do, lets create a command set that can convert the persistent app
data case.
The actual actions are nested under a 'class' named `case`. This means to invoke the action, one
would call it through `:case upper` or `:case lower`.

```rust
# extern crate papyrus;
# use papyrus::cmdtree::BuilderChain;
# use papyrus::cmds::CommandResult;
# type Builder = papyrus::cmdtree::Builder<CommandResult<String>>;
Builder::new("custom-cmds-app")
    .add_action("echo", "repeat back input after command", |writer, args| {
    writeln!(writer, "{}", args.join(" ")).ok();
    CommandResult::Empty
    })
    .begin_class("case", "change case of app_data")
    .add_action("upper", "make app_data uppercase", |_, _|
    CommandResult::<String>::app_data_fn(|app_data, _repldata, _| {
        *app_data = app_data.to_uppercase();
        String::new()
        })
    )
        .add_action("lower", "make app_data lowercase", |_, _|
    CommandResult::<String>::app_data_fn(|app_data, _repldata, _| {
        *app_data = app_data.to_lowercase();
        String::new()
        })
    )
    .end_class()
    .unwrap()
# ;
```

An example output is below. To inject some data into the persistent app data, a mutable code block
must be entered first.

```text
[lib] papyrus=> :mut
beginning mut block
[lib] custom-cmds-app-mut=> app_data.push_str("Hello, world!")
finished mutating block: ()
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> app_data.as_str()
custom-cmds-app [out0]: "Hello, world!"
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> :case upper
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> app_data.as_str()
custom-cmds-app [out1]: "HELLO, WORLD!"
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> :case lower
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> app_data.as_str()
custom-cmds-app [out2]: "hello, world!"
```

Commit message:

Clear sessions (#96)
* add ability to clear previous inputs

* only clear current module if no pattern specified

docs/modocs/cmds.md, after:

Extendable commands for REPL.

The REPL makes use of the crate [`cmdtree`](https://crates.io/crates/cmdtree) to handle commands
that can provide additional functionality over just a Rust REPL.
A command is prefixed by a colon (`:`) and a number of defaults. To see the commands that are
included, type `:help`.

# Common Commands

There are three common commands, `help`, `cancel` or `c`, and `exit`, which can be invoked in any
class.

| cmd      | action                                          |
| -------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `help`   | displays help information for the current class |
| `cancel` | moves the class back to the command root        |
| `exit`   | quit the REPL                                   |

Other commands are context based off the command tree, they can be invoked with something similar
to `a nested command action` syntax. There is also a 'verbatim' mode.

## Verbatim Mode
'verbatim' mode can be used to read stdin directly without processing of tabs, newlines, and other
keys which usually are interpreted to mean other things, such as completion or the end of an input.
To enter verbatim mode, use `Ctrl+o`. Verbatim mode will read stdin until the break command is
reached, which is `Ctrl+d`. Verbatim mode is especially useful for inputing multi-line strings and
if injecting code into the REPL from another program using stdin.

## Mutable Mode
The `mut` command will place the REPL into mutable mode, which makes access to `app_data` a `&mut`
pointer. Mutable mode avoids having state change on each REPL cycle, rather, when in mutable mode,
the expression will _not be saved_ such that it will only be run once. Developers can use this mode
to control how changes to `app_data` need to occur, especially by ensuring mutable access is
harding to achieve.

## Modules
The `mod` command allows more than just the `lib` module to exist in the REPL. Use `mod` to have
different REPL sessions all sharing the same compilation cycle. This can be useful to switch
contexts if need be.

There is also a `clear` command which can be used to clear the previous REPL inputs. It supports
glob patterns matching module paths, for example `:mod clear test/**` will clear all inputs under
the module path `test/`. _`:mod clear` clears all previous REPL input in the **current module**._

## Static Files
The `static-files` command allows the importing of file-system based rust documents into the REPL
compilation. Rust files must be relative to the REPL working directory, and will be imported using
a module path based off the relative file name. For example, `:static-files add foo.rs` will copy
the contents of `foo.rs` into a file that is _adjacent_ to the root library file, so can be access
in the REPL through `foo::*`. The file `foo/mod.rs` would similarly be accessible through `foo::*`.
If the file `foo/bar.rs` was imported, it would _not_ be accessible unless there was also a `foo`
static file, and the contents of that file would have to contain a `pub mod bar;`.

Static files can also reference crates. If a static file contains `extern crate name;` **at the
beginning** of the file, these crates are added to the compilation and can be referenced.

To add static files, it is possible to use glob patterns to add multiple files in one go. For
example to add _all_ files in the working directory the command `:static-files add *.rs` can be
used. To recursively add files `**/*.rs` can be used. This applies to removing static files using
the `rm` command.

# Extending Commands
## Setup

This tutorial works through the example at
[`papyrus/examples/custom-cmds.rs`](https://github.com/kurtlawrence/papyrus/blob/master/papyrus/examples/custom-cmds.rs).

To begin, start a binary project with the following scaffolding in the main source code. We define
a `custom_cmds` function that will be used to build our custom commands. To highlight the
versatility of commands, the REPL is configured to have a persistent app data through a `String`.
Notice also the method to alter the prompt name through the `Builder::new` method.

```rust,no_run
#[macro_use]
extern crate papyrus;

use papyrus::cmdtree::{Builder, BuilderChain};
use papyrus::cmds::CommandResult;

# #[cfg(not(feature = "runnable"))]
# fn main() {}

# #[cfg(feature = "runnable")]
fn main() {
    // Build a REPL that will use a String as the persistent app_data.
    let mut repl = repl!(String);

    // Inject our custom commands.
    repl.data.with_cmdtree_builder(custom_cmds()).unwrap();

    // Create the persistent data.
    let mut app_data = String::new();

    // Run the REPL and collect all the output.
    let output = repl.run(papyrus::run::RunCallbacks::new(&mut app_data)).unwrap();

    // Print the output.
    println!("{}", output);
}

// Define our custom commands.
// The CommandResult takes the same type as the app_data,
// in this instance it is a String. We could define it as
// a generic type but then it loses resolution to interact with
// the app_data through commands.
fn custom_cmds() -> Builder<CommandResult<String>> {
    // The string defines the name and the prompt that will be used.
    Builder::new("custom-cmds-app")
}
```

## Echo

Let's begin with a simple echo command. This command takes the data after the command and prints it
to screen. All these commands will be additions to the `Builder::new`.
Adding the following action with `add_action` method, the arguments are written to the `Write`able
`writer`. The REPL provides the writer and so captures the output. `args` is passed through as a
slice of string slices, `cmdtree` provides this, and are always split on word boundaries.
Finally, `CommandResult::Empty` is returned which `papyrus` further processes. `Empty` won't do
anything but the API provides alternatives.

```rust
# extern crate papyrus;
# use papyrus::cmdtree::BuilderChain;
# use papyrus::cmds::CommandResult;
# type Builder = papyrus::cmdtree::Builder<CommandResult<String>>;
Builder::new("custom-cmds-app")
    .add_action("echo", "repeat back input after command", |writer, args| {
    writeln!(writer, "{}", args.join(" ")).ok();
    CommandResult::Empty
    })
    .unwrap()
# ;
```

Now when the binary is run the REPL runs as usual. If `:help` is entered you should see the
following output.

```text
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> :help
help -- prints the help messages
cancel | c -- returns to the root class
exit -- sends the exit signal to end the interactive loop
Classes:
    edit -- Edit previous input
    mod -- Handle modules
Actions:
    echo -- repeat back input after command
    mut -- Begin a mutable block of code
[lib] custom-cmds-app=>
```

The `echo` command exists as a root level action, with the help message displayed. Try calling
`:echo Hello, world!` and see what it does!


## Alter app data

To extend what the commands can do, lets create a command set that can convert the persistent app
data case.
The actual actions are nested under a 'class' named `case`. This means to invoke the action, one
would call it through `:case upper` or `:case lower`.

```rust
# extern crate papyrus;
# use papyrus::cmdtree::BuilderChain;
# use papyrus::cmds::CommandResult;
# type Builder = papyrus::cmdtree::Builder<CommandResult<String>>;
Builder::new("custom-cmds-app")
    .add_action("echo", "repeat back input after command", |writer, args| {
    writeln!(writer, "{}", args.join(" ")).ok();
    CommandResult::Empty
    })
    .begin_class("case", "change case of app_data")
    .add_action("upper", "make app_data uppercase", |_, _|
    CommandResult::<String>::app_data_fn(|app_data, _repldata, _| {
        *app_data = app_data.to_uppercase();
        String::new()
        })
    )
        .add_action("lower", "make app_data lowercase", |_, _|
    CommandResult::<String>::app_data_fn(|app_data, _repldata, _| {
        *app_data = app_data.to_lowercase();
        String::new()
        })
    )
    .end_class()
    .unwrap()
# ;
```

An example output is below. To inject some data into the persistent app data, a mutable code block
must be entered first.

```text
[lib] papyrus=> :mut
beginning mut block
[lib] custom-cmds-app-mut=> app_data.push_str("Hello, world!")
finished mutating block: ()
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> app_data.as_str()
custom-cmds-app [out0]: "Hello, world!"
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> :case upper
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> app_data.as_str()
custom-cmds-app [out1]: "HELLO, WORLD!"
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> :case lower
[lib] custom-cmds-app=> app_data.as_str()
custom-cmds-app [out2]: "hello, world!"
```
